[docs] Docs/issue 309 governance models (#356)
nodejs/package-maintenance: docs/drafts/governance.md

# Governance

## Overview

> As a project grows and contributions and activity start to increase, establishing a good operating rhythm and workflow can go a long way towards helping a project run smoothly.  Detailing the project's motivations and  vision, maintenance and development cycles, and decision making and rules of conduct are just a few activitires that can all be used to help keep a project healthy and happy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a project grows and contributions and activity start to increase, establishing a good operating rhythm and workflow can go a long way towards helping a project run smoothly.  Detailing the project's motivations and  vision, maintenance and development cycles, and decision making and rules of conduct are just a few activities that can all be used to help keep a project healthy and happy.
```

The aim of this document is to provide thoughts and recommendations to project maintainers for ways they can organize, document, and ultimately establish a Governance model that can be applied to their own project's needs.

## Vision
It is always helpful to include a section that clearly states the solution space / objectives of the project.  This helps introduce the overarching vision of the project and help contextualize all further decision making.  (technical or otherwise).  Articulating the "why" of the project helps ensure maintainers and contibutors alike are aligned on the direction of the project as so is a good candidate to put first.

## Team Organization

### Owners / Maintainers

> Highlighting the current owner(s) of the project, as well any maintainers helps communicate who the stakeholders are in the project as it relates to issue triage, PR feedback, and general advocacy for the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Highlighting the current owner(s) and maintainers of the project helps communicate who the stakeholders are in the project as it relates to issue triage, PR feedback, and general advocacy for the project.
```

It is common that certain members of this group may get special permissions for actions like merging PRs, editing issues, etc, so that should also be documented here.  

An owner will typically be the administrator of the repository.

### Contributors
In some cases, projects can opt to invite members to the repository but with limited permissions.  This may include write access to a repository to facilitate branch creation and submitting PRs, but _not_ write access to the _**master**_ branch (or other protected branches).  

This is helpful for maintainers because they wouldn't have to clone a fork to test out the work, and also is less friction for conributors, who wouldn't have to maintain a fork.

> _As with owners and maintainers, enumarting the privileges and permissions of this group would also be recommended._

## Project Organization

> Although not necessarily coupled, but how the project is structured / distributed and how the team is organized can be different models.  This may the case with projects that use a monorepo structure or have a plugin like architecture, and are often building on top of a "core" or "cli" base package (`peerDependency` model).  As projects expand horizontally and vertically, delegating maintainers to oversee sections of code or packages in your project can help with scaling communication and ownership, in particular in regards to issue triage and PR reviews.  In addiiton, this helps build up subject matter expertise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There can be different models for how the project is structured / distributed and how the team is organized. This may the case with projects that use a monorepo structure or have a plugin like architecture, and are often building on top of a "core" or "cli" base package (`peerDependency` model).  As projects expand horizontally and vertically, delegating maintainers to oversee sections of code or packages in your project can help with scaling communication and ownership, in particular in regards to issue triage and PR reviews.  In addition, this helps build up subject matter expertise.
```

If your project groups multiple related packages (e.g. _transforms_, _middleware_, _plugins_, etc), consider how to govern those projects as they fan outwards, in particular when it comes to managing breaking changes, new APIs, and how that all cacades downstream to the users of the core package.

> > It may be apporopriate at this level that your project maintainers start meeting reguraly to discuss and involve themselves in overall project governance and decision making together.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> It may be apporopriate at this level that your project maintainers start meeting regularly to discuss and involve themselves in overall project governance and decision making together.
````

## Technical Organization

### Code Quality 

> If the project has a preferred styleguide, coding conventions, or other general rules around code quality, documenting those can be a good courtesy to those first time contributers to your project.  This can help prepare  contributions for such "housekeeping" tasks like minding the projects linting and formatting rules, expectations around writing unit test, or necessity around writing / updating documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the project has a preferred style guide, coding conventions, or other general rules around code quality, documenting those can be a good courtesy to those first time contributors to your project.  This can help prepare  contributions for such "housekeeping" tasks like minding the projects linting and formatting rules, expectations around writing unit test, or necessity around writing / updating documentation.
```
